documentation/clients/NGSI.md, before:

# OMA Next Generation Services Interface 10 {#ngsi}

The `ngsi` node type implements an interface to FIWARE context brokers following the NGSI 10 RESTful HTTP API.

This implementation if currently limited to the `updateContext` operation.
Therefore only publishing updates is supported. Subscribtion or polling of events is planned for later versions.
It's using `libcurl` and `libjansson` to communicate with the context broker over JSON.

## Configuration

Every `ngsi` node supports the following special settings:

#### `endpoint` *(string: URL)*

#### `ssl_verify` *(boolean)*

#### `timeout` *(float: seconds)*

#### `structure` *("flat" | "children")*

  - `flat`:
  - `children`:

#### `mapping` *(array of strings)*

Format for `structure = flat`: `"entityId(entityType).attributeName(attributeType)"`

Format for `structure = children`: `"parentId(entityType).value(attributeType)"`

### Example

@todo add example from example.conf

## Further reading

This standard was specified by the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA).

@see https://forge.fiware.org/plugins/mediawiki/wiki/fiware/index.php/FI-WARE_NGSI-10_Open_RESTful_API_Specification
@see http://technical.openmobilealliance.org/Technical/Release_Program/docs/NGSI/V1_0-20120529-A/OMA-TS-NGSI_Context_Management-V1_0-20120529-A.pdf

Commit message:

added 'combine' aka vector support to NGSI node

documentation/clients/NGSI.md, after:

# OMA Next Generation Services Interface 10 {#ngsi}

The `ngsi` node type implements an interface to FIWARE context brokers following the NGSI 10 RESTful HTTP API.

This implementation if currently limited to the `updateContext` operation.
Therefore only publishing updates is supported. Subscribtion or polling of events is planned for later versions.
It's using `libcurl` and `libjansson` to communicate with the context broker over JSON.

## Configuration

You can use the `combine` setting to send multiple samples in a vector.

Every `ngsi` node supports the following special settings:

#### `endpoint` *(string: URL)*

#### `entity_id` *(string)*

#### `entity_type` *(string)*

#### `ssl_verify` *(boolean)*

#### `timeout` *(float: seconds)*

#### `mapping` *(array of strings)*

Format `AttributeName(AttributeType)`

### Example

	ngsi_node = {
		type = "ngsi",
		
	### The following settings are specific to the ngsi node-type!! ###

		endpoint = "http://46.101.131.212:1026",# The HTTP REST API endpoint of the FIRWARE context broker
		
		entity_id = "S3_ElectricalGrid",	
		entity_type = "ElectricalGridMonitoring",
		
		timeout = 5,				# Timeout of HTTP request in seconds (default is 1)
		verify_ssl = false,			# Verification of SSL server certificates (default is true)

		mapping = [				# Format: "AttributeName(AttributeType)"
			PTotalLosses(MW)",
			"QTotalLosses(Mvar)"
		]
	}

## Further reading

This standard was specified by the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA).

@see https://forge.fiware.org/plugins/mediawiki/wiki/fiware/index.php/FI-WARE_NGSI-10_Open_RESTful_API_Specification
@see http://technical.openmobilealliance.org/Technical/Release_Program/docs/NGSI/V1_0-20120529-A/OMA-TS-NGSI_Context_Management-V1_0-20120529-A.pdf
