documentation/clients/OPAL.md, before:

# OPAL-RT Asynchronous Process {#opal}

The communication between OPAL-RT models and the S2SS is established by using ansychronous programs.
Asynchronous programs are are a feature of RT-LAB. They are used to exchange data between Simulink models and custom C programs.

For this purpose the C program handels IP/UDP communication via BSD sockets.

## Configuration

Every `opal` node supports the following special settings:

#### `send_id` *(integer)*

#### `recv_id` *(integer)*

#### `reply` *(boolean)*

## Arguments for OPAL-RT block

RT-LAB already provides a block to establish simple TCP/IP communication: ???
This block is based on a more generic block used for aynchronous programs: ???

@todo Insert name of RT-LAB blocks.

| Param		 | Description   | Example Value  |
| :------------- | :------------ |:-------------- |
| FloatParam[0]	 | Protocol      |                |
| FloatParam[1]  | RemotePort    | 10200          |
| FloatParam[2]  | LocalPort	 | 10201          |
| StringParam[0] | RemoteAddr	 | 192.168.0.10   |
| StringParam[1] | LocalAddr	 | 192.168.0.11   |
| StringParam[2] | InterfaceName | eth2           |

@todo Complete documentation for the OPAL-RT Simulink module.

Commit message:

added missing example configurations to other node types

documentation/clients/OPAL.md, after:

# OPAL-RT Asynchronous Process {#opal}

The communication between OPAL-RT models and the S2SS is established by using ansychronous programs.
Asynchronous programs are are a feature of RT-LAB. They are used to exchange data between Simulink models and custom C programs.

For this purpose the C program handels IP/UDP communication via BSD sockets.

## Configuration

Every `opal` node supports the following special settings:

#### `send_id` *(integer)*

#### `recv_id` *(integer)*

#### `reply` *(boolean)*

### Example

	opal_node = {					# The server can be started as an Asynchronous process
		type	= "opal",			# from within an OPAL-RT model.
		
	### The following settings are specific to the opal node-type!! ###

		send_id	= 1,				# It's possible to have multiple send / recv Icons per model
		recv_id	= 1,				# Specify the ID here.
		reply = true
	}

## Arguments for OPAL-RT block

RT-LAB already provides a block to establish simple TCP/IP communication: ???
This block is based on a more generic block used for aynchronous programs: ???

@todo Insert name of RT-LAB blocks.

| Param		 | Description   | Example Value  |
| :------------- | :------------ |:-------------- |
| FloatParam[0]	 | Protocol      |                |
| FloatParam[1]  | RemotePort    | 10200          |
| FloatParam[2]  | LocalPort	 | 10201          |
| StringParam[0] | RemoteAddr	 | 192.168.0.10   |
| StringParam[1] | LocalAddr	 | 192.168.0.11   |
| StringParam[2] | InterfaceName | eth2           |

@todo Complete documentation for the OPAL-RT Simulink module.
