fpga/README.md, before:

# <img src="doc/pictures/villas_fpga.png" width=40 /> VILLASfpga

[![build status](https://git.rwth-aachen.de/VILLASframework/VILLASfpga/badges/develop/build.svg)](https://git.rwth-aachen.de/acs/VILLASfpga/commits/develop)
[![coverage report](https://git.rwth-aachen.de/VILLASframework/VILLASfpga/badges/develop/coverage.svg)](https://git.rwth-aachen.de/acs/VILLASfpga/commits/develop)

**TODO:** Write project description

## Documentation

User documentation is available here: <https://villas.fein-aachen.org/doc/fpga.html>

## Copyright

2018, Institute for Automation of Complex Power Systems, EONERC

## License

This project is released under the terms of the [GPL version 3](COPYING.md).

```
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
```

For other licensing options please consult [Prof. Antonello Monti](mailto:amonti@eonerc.rwth-aachen.de).

## Contact

[![EONERC ACS Logo](doc/pictures/eonerc_logo.png)](http://www.acs.eonerc.rwth-aachen.de)

- Steffen Vogel <stvogel@eonerc.rwth-aachen.de>
- Daniel Krebs <dkrebs@eonerc.rwth-aachen.de>

[Institute for Automation of Complex Power Systems (ACS)](http://www.acs.eonerc.rwth-aachen.de)
[EON Energy Research Center (EONERC)](http://www.eonerc.rwth-aachen.de)
[RWTH University Aachen, Germany](http://www.rwth-aachen.de)

Commit message:

add note to cite our publication

fpga/README.md, after:

# <img src="doc/pictures/villas_fpga.png" width=40 /> VILLASfpga

[![build status](https://git.rwth-aachen.de/VILLASframework/VILLASfpga/badges/develop/build.svg)](https://git.rwth-aachen.de/acs/VILLASfpga/commits/develop)
[![coverage report](https://git.rwth-aachen.de/VILLASframework/VILLASfpga/badges/develop/coverage.svg)](https://git.rwth-aachen.de/acs/VILLASfpga/commits/develop)

**TODO:** Write project description

## Documentation

User documentation is available here: <https://villas.fein-aachen.org/doc/fpga.html>

## Copyright

2018, Institute for Automation of Complex Power Systems, EONERC

## License

This project is released under the terms of the [GPL version 3](COPYING.md).

We kindly ask all academic publications employing components of VILLASframework to cite one of the following papers:

- A. Monti et al., "[A Global Real-Time Superlab: Enabling High Penetration of Power Electronics in the Electric Grid](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8458285/)," in IEEE Power Electronics Magazine, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 35-44, Sept. 2018.
- S. Vogel, M. Mirz, L. Razik and A. Monti, "[An open solution for next-generation real-time power system simulation](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8245739&isnumber=8244404)," 2017 IEEE Conference on Energy Internet and Energy System Integration (EI2), Beijing, 2017, pp. 1-6.

```
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
```

For other licensing options please consult [Prof. Antonello Monti](mailto:amonti@eonerc.rwth-aachen.de).

## Contact

[![EONERC ACS Logo](doc/pictures/eonerc_logo.png)](http://www.acs.eonerc.rwth-aachen.de)

- Steffen Vogel <stvogel@eonerc.rwth-aachen.de>
- Daniel Krebs <dkrebs@eonerc.rwth-aachen.de>

[Institute for Automation of Complex Power Systems (ACS)](http://www.acs.eonerc.rwth-aachen.de)
[EON Energy Research Center (EONERC)](http://www.eonerc.rwth-aachen.de)
[RWTH University Aachen, Germany](http://www.rwth-aachen.de)
